OK so you're still not that impressed with closures.
You're a tough cookie to crack but maybe with encapsulation I can convince you otherwise let's create
a serious function this time.
None of those funny silly functions that I keep creating.
Let's have a concert make nuclear button function and this function well do a few things.
Actually the first thing that it should do is to launch a nuclear bomb.
So let's do that.
I'm going to create a launch function and this launch function is going to return a big boom.
All right.
So that's our launch function.
And you know what I want this function to maybe do more than just launch stuff.
Let's let's have a countdown or let's figure out how much time we have without the ball.
Let me show you what I mean.
Let's create a variable called let time without destruction and time with our struct destruction will
be zero.
And we're going to create a little timer that counts how long it's been since well we've had this mutually
assured destruction.
So in here I'm going to have a variable called pass time and this past time variable or function in
this case which happens to be assigned to a variable we'll simply have time without destruction and
increment that time and then finally to make all of this work.
I'm going to add a set interval which is like set time out but it keeps running the function that we
give it.
So in this case I'm just going to run pass time.
So that is to increment the time without destruction by 1.
And we'll do that every one second.
All right.
So I've created this.
Nothing's being returned from this function let's return a few things.
I'm going to return an object that has the launch
function and let's maybe also make a total peace time function that simply gets the time without destruction.
So let's create that first let's say total peacetime at a common here and then I'm going to create a
another function called the concept total peacetime which will just return for us the time without destruction
nothing too crazy here.
Hey you know what.
Just to keep in line with everything let's with the launch before we return the bomb will change time
without destruction to equal minus one.
Oh no that's not good okay.
So let's see if this works.
Now I can assign this to a variable let's say const oh no and oh no is going to say make nuclear bomb
or nuclear button and we're going to run this cyclic run while nothing happens because we have to actually
run something we've just assigned a object to.
Oh no so by come down here and say oh no dot.
Total peacetime and I run this function well I get zero.
This is actually a little funny but because of the environment that I'm using this actually the set
interval won't work properly.
So let's use the developer tools instead.
I'm going to copy this function.
Open up developer tools and copy and paste this.
Let's see what happens.
Well I've got to refresh this.
Let's try that again.
I get zero if I do.
Oh no dot.
Total peace time.
Again I get twelve total seconds have passed.
What if I wait again and run this.
I get 18 seconds have passed.
All right.
We have a lot of time with peace.
That's great.
And then I run this again.
24 seconds.
Well then all of a sudden I decide I'm going to launch
Oh boy boom we have a big explosion.
And if I go to total peace time while we're back to four again that's no good.
But our functions working let's go back here and let's refresh so we can see the window again.
All right.
I hope this function isn't too confusing but let me demonstrate something to you.
We used here closures right the time without destruction is something that these functions have access
to but we also don't really want people to have powers like launch right.
So instead let's remove the launch function from the returned object and instead just have total peace
time so that if I run launch now no launch is not a function and this is what encapsulation does it's
hiding of information that is unnecessary to be seen by the outside world or manipulated.
And this gets into the idea of principle of least privilege a big security principle when it comes to
programming where you don't want to give just anybody access to your API to your special functions or
variables and using closures we are able to access things like time without destruction that I don't
want anybody else touching because I just want to set interval to constantly increment that but at the
same time I still want people to have access to things like pass time so that that pass time function
can access the variables that are sacred to me.
And this is one of the main benefits of closures of data encapsulation and it refers to the idea that
some data should just not be directly exposed and we're able to do that now later on in the course when
we talk about modules in JavaScript you'll see that classical module patterns like people used to use
with immediately invoked function expressions use this pattern and we're only able to do that because
of closures.
All right.
I hope you now truly understand the power of closures.
I think it's time for us to do a couple of exercises though.
So I'll see you in the next one.